.TH "nerved" "1" "Feb 19 2009" "" "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
.LP
.B
nerved \- nerve audio player daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
\fBnerved\fR \fI[OPTION]\fR...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
\fBNerved\fR holds the playlist state and performs the audio processing 
operations.  It is controlled using an IPC interface.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
The majority of the functionality of \fBnerved\fR is configured using the 
files but the following commandline options are available.
.TP
\fB-c\fR, \fB--console\fR, \fB--no-fork\fR
Stay attached to the console.  This causes the default log to be stdout.
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
Print usage information.
.TP
\fB--version\fR
Print nerved version.
.TP
\fB-l\fR, \fB--log\fR=\fIFILE|syslog|stderr|stdout\fR
Log to a file called \fIFILE\fR, \fIsyslog\fR, \fIstderr\fR, or \fIstdout\fR.  The 
default is normally \fIsyslog\fR.
.TP
\fB-d\fR, \fB--conf-dir\fR=[\fIDIR\fR]
Find configuration files in the dir \fIDIR\fR.  If a parameter is not given,
then only the defaults and what is given by \fB--conf\fR is loaded.
.TP
\fB-a\fR, \fB--conf\fR=\fIFILE\fR
Use the *additional* configuration file \fIFILE\fR to override values
already set.  This option can be used multiple times.
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB--verbosity\fR=\fIdebug|notice|warning|error|critial|none\fR
Which serverities of log message should be outputted.  By default, warnings
are outputted.  Note that some compile-time configurations have a great 
effect on the amount of debug output.  Generally warning is the most useful
level.
.TP
\fB-s\fR, \fB--silent\fR
Like --verbosity=none; no logging is done at all except possibly assert failures
or genuine bugs.

.SH "CONFIGURATION"
.LP
See \fI/etc/nerved/*\fR and \fI~/.nerved/*\fR.
\fR
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP
\fBnerve(1)\fR
.SH AUTHOR
.LP
James Webber
.SH COPYRIGHT
.LP
Copyright (C) 2008-9 under the GNU Lesser GPL, version 3.
